## BLEU Score

The BLEU score is a metric used to measure the quality of machine-generated
text by comparing it to human-generated reference text. It stands for
"Bilingual Evaluation Understudy" and is commonly used in the field of natural
language processing.

The BLEU score calculates the similarity between the machine-generated text
and the reference text by comparing the n-grams (contiguous sequences of n
words) present in both. It assigns a score between 0 and 1, where a higher
score indicates a better match with the reference text.

### Example:

Let's say we have a machine translation system that translates English
sentences into French. We want to evaluate the quality of the translations
produced by the system using the BLEU score.

Reference sentence (human-generated): "The cat is sitting on the mat."

Machine-generated translation: "Le chat est assis sur le tapis."

To calculate the BLEU score, we compare the n-grams present in both the
reference and the machine-generated translation. Let's consider n=2 (bigrams)
for simplicity.

The bigrams present in the reference sentence are: "The cat", "cat is",
"is sitting", "sitting on", "on the", "the mat".

The bigrams present in the machine-generated translation are: "Le chat",
"chat est", "est assis", "assis sur", "sur le", "le tapis".

Out of these 6 bigrams, only 2 ("le chat" and "sur le") are present in both
the reference and the machine-generated translation.

Therefore, the BLEU score for this translation would be 2/6 = 0.33.

### Follow-up Questions:

1. Why is the BLEU score important?
   - The BLEU score helps us assess the quality of machine-generated text,
     such as translations or summaries. It provides a quantitative measure
     that can be used to compare different systems or evaluate improvements
     made to a system over time.

2. How is the BLEU score calculated?
   - The BLEU score is calculated by comparing the n-grams (contiguous
     sequences of n words) present in both the reference and the
     machine-generated text. The score is based on the precision of the
     n-grams, taking into account the brevity penalty to avoid favoring
     shorter translations.

3. What is the range of BLEU scores?
   - The BLEU score ranges from 0 to 1, where 1 indicates a perfect match
     between the machine-generated text and the reference text.

### Etymology and History:

The term "BLEU" stands for "Bilingual Evaluation Understudy" and was coined
by researchers at IBM in the early 2000s. It was developed as a metric to
evaluate the quality of machine translation systems. Since then, it has
become widely adopted in the field of natural language processing for
evaluating various text generation tasks.

### Summary:

The BLEU score is a metric used to measure the quality of machine-generated
text by comparing it to human-generated reference text. It calculates the
similarity between the two texts based on the presence of n-grams. The score
ranges from 0 to 1, with a higher score indicating a better match with the
reference text. The BLEU score is widely used in natural language processing
to evaluate machine translation systems and other text generation tasks.

### See also:

- [N-gram](?concept=n-gram&specialist_role=Software+architect&target_audience=Manager+without+much+technical+background):
  A contiguous sequence of n words.
- [Precision and Recall](?concept=precision+and+recall&specialist_role=Software+architect&target_audience=Manager+without+much+technical+background):
  Metrics used to evaluate the performance of information retrieval systems.