# Cargo Cult

The concept of Cargo Cult refers to a phenomenon where people imitate the
superficial actions of a successful process or system without understanding the
underlying principles or reasons behind it. It often occurs when people observe
successful outcomes and mistakenly attribute them to specific actions or
rituals, rather than the actual causes.

## Example

Imagine a team that has successfully implemented an Agile development process
and achieved significant improvements in productivity and quality. Another team
in the same organization, without understanding the principles behind Agile,
decides to adopt the same practices without making any fundamental changes to
their way of working. They may hold daily stand-up meetings, use Kanban boards,
and have regular retrospectives, but they fail to see the same benefits as the
original team. This is an example of a Cargo Cult, where the second team
imitates the practices without understanding the underlying principles that
make Agile successful.

## Follow-up Questions

**Q1: Why do people engage in Cargo Cult behavior?**

People engage in Cargo Cult behavior because they see others achieving success
and want to replicate it. However, they often lack the understanding or
knowledge of the underlying principles that drive that success. They believe
that by mimicking the surface-level actions, they will achieve the same
outcomes.

**Q2: What are the risks of Cargo Cult behavior?**

The main risk of Cargo Cult behavior is that it can lead to wasted time,
effort, and resources. By focusing on superficial actions without understanding
the underlying principles, people may fail to address the real problems or
achieve the desired outcomes. It can also create a false sense of progress or
improvement, as the actual causes of success are not being addressed.

## Etymology and History

The term "Cargo Cult" originated in the context of Melanesian islanders during
World War II. These islanders witnessed the arrival of Western military forces
bringing abundant supplies and goods. When the war ended and the military left,
the islanders attempted to attract the return of the "cargo" by imitating the
actions they observed, such as building runways, control towers, and wooden
replicas of airplanes. They believed that by replicating the visible aspects of
the military's activities, they would bring back the abundance of goods.

## Summary

Cargo Cult refers to the imitation of successful practices or actions without
understanding the underlying principles that drive their success. It can occur
in various domains, including software development, where teams may adopt
processes or methodologies without grasping the fundamental concepts. Cargo
Cult behavior can lead to wasted resources and a failure to achieve desired
outcomes.

## See also

- [Best practices](?concept=best+practices&specialist_role=Software+architect&target_audience=Manager+without+much+technical+background):
  Understanding the principles behind successful practices is crucial to avoid
  Cargo Cult behavior.
- [Process improvement](?concept=process+improvement&specialist_role=Software+architect&target_audience=Manager+without+much+technical+background):
  Instead of blindly imitating processes, focusing on continuous improvement
  helps to understand and address the underlying causes of success.