# Consistency Models

Consistency models are a way to define how data is updated and accessed in a
distributed system. They ensure that all users see a consistent view of the
data, even when multiple users are making changes simultaneously.

## Simple Explanation

Imagine you have a team of people working on a document together. Each person
has their own copy of the document, and they can make changes to it. However,
if everyone makes changes at the same time, it can become confusing and
inconsistent.

To avoid this, consistency models define rules for how changes are made and
how they are seen by others. For example, one consistency model might say that
only one person can make changes at a time, and everyone else has to wait
their turn. This ensures that everyone sees the document in the same state.

## Follow-up Questions

**Q: Why do we need consistency models? Can't we just let everyone make
changes whenever they want?**

A: Consistency models are important because they help maintain the integrity
and reliability of the data. Without consistency models, it would be difficult
to ensure that everyone sees the same version of the data, which can lead to
confusion and errors.

**Q: Are there different types of consistency models?**

A: Yes, there are different types of consistency models, each with its own
trade-offs. Some models prioritize strong consistency, where all users see the
same data at the same time. Others prioritize availability, allowing users to
see data even if it's not the most up-to-date. The choice of consistency model
depends on the specific requirements of the system.

## Example

Let's say you have an online shopping website with multiple servers. When a
customer places an order, the order information needs to be stored in the
database. However, if multiple servers are handling orders at the same time,
there is a risk of data inconsistency.

To ensure consistency, you can use a consistency model that requires all
servers to agree on the order before it is considered complete. This means
that the order will only be visible to the customer once all servers have
successfully stored the order information. This ensures that the customer
always sees the correct and up-to-date order information.

## Etymology and History

The concept of consistency models originated in the field of distributed
systems, which deals with the challenges of coordinating multiple computers
working together. The term "consistency model" was first introduced in the
early 1980s by researchers studying the behavior of distributed databases.

## Summary

Consistency models define rules for how data is updated and accessed in a
distributed system to ensure that all users see a consistent view of the data.
They help maintain data integrity and reliability. Different consistency models
prioritize different trade-offs, such as strong consistency or availability.

## See also

- [Distributed Systems](?concept=distributed+systems&specialist_role=Software+architect&target_audience=Manager+without+much+technical+background):
  Provides an overview of distributed systems and their challenges.
- [Concurrency Control](?concept=concurrency+control&specialist_role=Software+architect&target_audience=Manager+without+much+technical+background):
  Explains how consistency models are implemented to manage concurrent access
  to data.