# Conway's Law

Conway's Law is a concept that states that the structure of a software system
tends to mirror the communication structure of the organization that develops
it. In simpler terms, it means that the way a team is organized and how they
communicate with each other will directly impact the design and architecture of
the software they build.

## Follow-up Questions

**Q:** How does the organization's structure affect the software design?
**A:** The organization's structure influences how teams collaborate and
communicate. If teams are organized in a hierarchical manner, the software
design may also become hierarchical, with tightly coupled components. On the
other hand, if teams are organized in a more decentralized manner, the software
design may become more modular and loosely coupled.

**Q:** Can you provide an example to illustrate Conway's Law?
**A:** Sure! Let's say we have a company with separate teams for frontend and
backend development. If these teams have limited communication and work
independently, they are likely to build separate components that interact
through well-defined interfaces. This mirrors the organization's structure,
where the frontend and backend teams have limited interaction.

## Etymology and History

Conway's Law is named after Melvin Conway, who first introduced the concept in
1968. Conway was a computer scientist and software engineer who observed that
the design of a system is heavily influenced by the communication patterns of
the organization developing it. His original statement was: "organizations
which design systems ... are constrained to produce designs which are copies of
the communication structures of these organizations."

## Summary

Conway's Law states that the way a team is organized and communicates with each
other will impact the design and architecture of the software they build. The
concept highlights the importance of considering organizational structure when
planning software development projects.

## See also

- [Modularity](?concept=modularity&specialist_role=Software+architect&target_audience=Manager+without+much+technical+background):
  Explains the concept of modularity in software design and how it relates to
  Conway's Law.
- [Agile Development](?concept=agile+development&specialist_role=Software+architect&target_audience=Manager+without+much+technical+background):
  Discusses the agile development methodology, which promotes collaboration and
  communication within teams, aligning with the principles of Conway's Law.