# Domain-driven Design

Domain-driven design (DDD) is an approach to software development that focuses on
building software systems that closely align with the business domain they are
intended to serve. It emphasizes collaboration between technical and domain experts
to create a shared understanding of the problem domain and to design software that
reflects that understanding.

In simpler terms, DDD is about building software that speaks the language of the
business and solves the problems specific to that business. It helps ensure that the
software accurately represents the real-world concepts, processes, and rules of the
business, making it easier to understand, maintain, and evolve over time.

## Follow-up Questions:

**Q1: How does DDD help in building software that aligns with the business domain?**

DDD encourages collaboration between technical experts (software developers) and
domain experts (people who understand the business). By working together, they can
identify and model the core concepts, relationships, and rules of the business domain.
This shared understanding is then used to design the software in a way that closely
matches the real-world domain.

**Q2: Can you provide an example of how DDD is applied in practice?**

Sure! Let's consider an example of building an e-commerce system. In this case, the
core domain concepts might include products, orders, customers, and payments. The
domain experts and software developers would work together to define the attributes,
behavior, and relationships of these concepts. The software would then be designed and
implemented to reflect this domain model, making it easier to understand and maintain.

**Q3: How does DDD help in maintaining and evolving the software over time?**

By focusing on the business domain, DDD helps create a software design that is more
resilient to changes. As the business evolves, the software can be adapted more easily
since it is closely aligned with the domain. Additionally, the shared understanding
between domain experts and software developers helps in making informed decisions
about changes and enhancements to the software.

## Etymology and History:

The term "Domain-driven Design" was coined by Eric Evans in his book titled "Domain-
Driven Design: Tackling Complexity in the Heart of Software" published in 2003. Evans
introduced DDD as a set of principles and practices to address the challenges of
building complex software systems.

## Summary:

Domain-driven design (DDD) is an approach to software development that emphasizes
building software systems that closely align with the business domain. It promotes
collaboration between technical and domain experts to create a shared understanding of
the problem domain and design software that accurately represents it. DDD helps in
building software that is easier to understand, maintain, and evolve over time.

## See also:

- [Agile Software Development](?concept=Agile+Software+Development&specialist_role=Software+architect&target_audience=Manager+without+much+technical+background):
  An iterative and flexible approach to software development that complements DDD.
  
- [Ubiquitous Language](?concept=Ubiquitous+Language&specialist_role=Software+architect&target_audience=Manager+without+much+technical+background):
  The practice of using a common language between domain experts and software developers
  to ensure a shared understanding of the problem domain.