**Two-factor theory** is a concept that explains the factors that motivate
employees in the workplace. It suggests that there are two types of factors:
**hygiene factors** and **motivational factors**.

Hygiene factors are the basic needs that must be met to prevent dissatisfaction
in the workplace. These factors include things like salary, job security,
working conditions, and company policies. If these factors are not met, they
can lead to dissatisfaction among employees.

On the other hand, motivational factors are the factors that actually motivate
employees to perform better and feel satisfied in their work. These factors
include things like recognition, achievement, responsibility, and growth
opportunities. When these factors are present, employees are more likely to be
motivated and satisfied in their jobs.

**Follow-up question 1:** Can you give an example of a hygiene factor?

**Answer:** Sure! A hygiene factor could be the physical working conditions in
an office. For example, if the office is too hot or too cold, it can make
employees uncomfortable and dissatisfied. However, if the office has a
comfortable temperature, it would meet the basic needs of employees and prevent
dissatisfaction.

**Follow-up question 2:** What about a motivational factor? Can you provide an
example?

**Answer:** Of course! A motivational factor could be the opportunity for
growth and advancement within a company. For instance, if a software developer
is given the chance to learn new technologies, attend training programs, or
take on challenging projects, it can motivate them to perform better and feel
satisfied in their work.

**Etymology and History:**

The Two-factor theory, also known as the Herzberg's Two-factor theory, was
developed by Frederick Herzberg, an American psychologist, in the 1950s. It
emerged from Herzberg's research on job satisfaction and motivation. Herzberg
conducted a study where he asked employees about their job satisfaction and
dissatisfaction factors. From this study, he identified two distinct sets of
factors: hygiene factors and motivational factors.

**Summary:**

The Two-factor theory suggests that there are two types of factors that
influence employee motivation and satisfaction in the workplace. Hygiene
factors are the basic needs that, when met, prevent dissatisfaction, while
motivational factors are the factors that actually motivate employees and lead
to job satisfaction. Understanding and addressing both types of factors is
important for creating a motivating work environment.

**See also:**

- [Maslow's Hierarchy of Needs](?concept=Maslow%27s+Hierarchy+of+Needs&specialist_role=Manager&target_audience=Software+developer):
  A theory that explains the different levels of human needs and how they
  influence motivation.
- [Expectancy Theory](?concept=Expectancy+Theory&specialist_role=Manager&target_audience=Software+developer):
  A theory that suggests that people are motivated to act based on their
  expectations of achieving desired outcomes.